 In a 1968 speech, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. said, In the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends . In the classroom, I challenge my students to explore the silences in their own lives through poetry .
 In an effort to create a culture within my classroom, where students feel safe sharing the intemuses of their own silences, I have four core principles posted on the board that sits in the front of my class, which every student signs the beginning of the year . I find myself thinking a lot about that last point .
 "I was always taught that the most meaningful thing one could do was to give something up. Sacrifice something, you typically indulgent, to prove to God, you understand his sanctity. I've given up soda, McDonald's French fries, and McDonald's french fries."
 I spent so much of my life telling people things they wanted to hear instead of the things they needed to, told myself, I wasn't meant to be anyone's conscience . So one year, I gave up speaking, figure the most valuable thing I could sacrifice was my own voice, but it was like I hadn't realized that I had given that up a long time ago .
 When Christian was beat up for being gay, I put my hands in my pocket and walk with my head down as if I didn't even notice . I couldn't use my locker for weeks because the boat on the lock reminded me of the one I had put on my lips when the homeless man on the corner looked at me with eyes up, and I was really searching for an affirmation that he was worth seeing .
 When the woman at the fundraising gala said I'm so proud of you, it must be so hard teaching those poor, unintelligent kids, I bit my lip because apparently we needed her money, more than my students needed their dignity . Silence is the residue of fear. It is filling your flaws, gut-nredged guillotine, your tongue, it is the air, we're treating from your chest .
 There is no time to pick your battles, when your battles have already picked you . Silence is rewarding genocide, says CNN.com's LZ Granderson .
 This year, instead of giving something up, I will live every day as if the word a microphone touched under my tongue, a stage on the underside of my inhibition . I will tell that woman that my students can talk about transcendentalism like their last name was the role .
 "Thank you.  a soapbox when all you've ever needed is your voice, thank you. Thank you. A soapbox is a place where all you need is your own voice."
