 Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in a 1968 speech, he said, in the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends . In the classroom, I challenge my students to explore the silences in their own lives through poetry . Students feel safe sharing the intimacies of their own silences in their classrooms . They must fill those spaces, to recognize them, to name them, and to understand that they don't have to be sources of shame . I was always taught that the most meaningful thing one could do was to give something up, sacrifice something you typically indulge in to prove to God, you understand his sanctity . I've given up soda, McDonald's, French fries,  French fries . I spent so much of my life telling people things they wanted to hear instead of the things they needed to told . I wasn't meant to be anyone's conscience because I still had to figure out being my own. So sometimes, I just wouldn't say anything. When Christian was beat up for being gay, I put my hands in my pocket and walk with my head down as if I didn't even notice . Couldn't use my locker for weeks because the boat on the lock reminded me of the one I had put on my lips when the homeless man on the corner looked at me with eyes up merely searching for an affirmation that he was worth seeing . When the woman at the fundraising gala said I'm so proud of you, it must be so hard teaching those poor, unintelligent kids, I bit my lip because apparently we needed her money, more than my students needed their dignity . Silence is the residue of fear. It is filling your flaws, gut rigillity, your tongue, it is the air retreating from your chest . There is no time to pick your battles. When your battles have already picked you, I will not let silence wrap itself around my indecision . Silence is rwandan genocide. It is what you hear when there aren't enough body bags left. it doesn't feel safe in your lungs . This year, instead of giving something up, I will live every day as if there were a microphone tucked under my tongue . I will tell that woman that my students can talk about trans and denilism like their last name was the row . It is just because you watched one episode of The Wire doesn't mean you know anything about my kids . When all you have ever needed is your voice. ? ? Thank you. Thank you . Thank you for your voice . When all we need is our voice is our own .